In this lecture I will give you a demo
of how the JFrog integration with Jenkins works.
First you need to have JFrog Artifactory,
you can download their open source version
from their website.
So these are the open source solutions,
you can just click on Downloads.
And then you can download the open source version.
Well it's easier and what a lot of companies use
is the managed version.
The cloud version that JFrog sets up for you,
you can start a free trial and then you can
decide later on whether you use it or not.
So I'm going to us the SaaS version,
I would use the SaaS version on Amazon Web Services.
You have to fill this out,
you get your own JFrog io sub domain.
And then once you fill this out, you need to activate it.
And after a couple of minutes you should be able to use it.
Then you need of course the plugin,
the Artifactory plugin.
So go to available plugins
and you just look for Artifactory.
And you're going to install this Artifactory plugin.
It's going to install dependencies, the plugin,
and then it's going to restart Jenkins.
While Jenkins is updating I'm going
to go to my JFrog account.
So I'm going to log in with my credentials
and then I'm going to click to go to my server.
And then I will be redirected to my own JFrog server.
And then this username and password,
if you're using this version,
is actually admin and then a random password
that has been emailed to you.
So if you cannot log in make sure
you are using the correct credentials.
And then you get a welcome screen.
And you can see all the integrations.
So now we see the screen,
Artifactory is happily serving zero artifacts,
it's just an empty Artifactory system.
So what you're gonna do is
you wanna do a Quick Setup,
you want to create a Gradle repository.
Press Create.
And then it's going to create a Gradle dev local,
Gradle release local, a jcenter,
a Gradle dev, and Gradle release.
So those repositories have been created now.
And how the system works is
we can publish some jars or some artifacts
in one of these repos.
And then if you want you can also use
these repos as dependencies.
So the jars, the libraries that you were using
can also be imported and cached in this system.
And then your own libraries can then be saved here as well.
So then when you use depenencies,
some of the depenencies can be yours,
some of the depenencies can be from someone else,
public depenencies.
So it bundles private and public depenencies
for any programming language that you want.
The principle is the same.
I'm going to show it to you with Gradle,
but you could do the same thing Maven,
with NPM, or even with Docker,
if you don't like to use Docker Hub.
Or a generic one, so this one here
is a generic one to publish some artifacts
and get some artifacts, that's all possible.
What we need is we need now a user
and we need the permissions for that user.
Best practice is to create group,
so let me just start with creating a group.
I'm going to create a new group.
Let's create a deploy group.
I'm gonna create a new user.
I'm gonna create a deploy user.
(mouse clicking)
I'm going to put this deploy user
in the deploy group.
I'm gonna give this user a password and an email address.
This user doesn't have admin privileges,
which means that we're gonna have
to add permission ourselves.
So here we have the deploy user in the deploy group.
Let's now add permissions.
I'm gonna click New again.
I'm gonna add deploy permissions.
I'm gonna select all my repositories
that my deploy user can deploy too.
So the ones I create my deploy user
is going to be able to deploy too.
I'm gonna save the deploy.
Deploy group has this deploy permission
and this deploy group can deploy artifacts,
so it can deploy something,
but it cannot delete, it can't manage anything.
We'll save and finish.
And that should be enough to get going.
So Jenkins installed the Artifactory plugin.
And then we're gonna have to manage Jenkins.
Gonna have to go to Configure System,
then we have to go and configure
the JFrog Artifactory plugin.
Enable to make it secure,
then it is best to use the credentials plugin.
And then we're going to store the credentials,
just as we store all the other credentials.
So it's your username and password,
the username is deploy.
What I'm going to do now is,
I'm going to log in with my deploy user
and my deploy password.
And here on my user profile,
I'm actually going to unlock this,
I'm going to create an API key.
So here you can click to regenerate one
because I already have one.
And then you can copy the key to the clipboard
rather than using your username and password,
you can use an API key.
And that API key you can use
as a password for your deploy user.
So this is for JFrog Artifactory.
JFrog, we'll just make it the Artifactory.
Gonna add this.
The server ID,
(mouse clicking and keys clacking)
And the URL.
(mouse clicking)
Gonna select the correct credentials.
And let's test the connection.
Okay, so now it works.
I just had to add this slash NewTechAcademy.
Found Artifactory 5.3.0.
We are going to save this.
And the first example I'm going to show you,
it's gonna be without Docker
because the Artifactory plugin
is going to use its own Java
and it's own Gradle to build this project.
If you're only going to use Docker,
like I explained in previous lectures,
I will show you at the end of this demo
how we can still manage to do that.
So do that then I have to go to Manage Jenkins,
Global Tool Configuration.
Going to have to install Gradle,
so here I'll just say Gradle, install automatically.
Latest version.
I'm going to save this.
Let's create a new item.
It's going to be Pipeline and it's going to be
my Gradle publisher test.
Press OK.
It's gonna be Pipeline from SCM.
I'm gonna get it from Git
and at my Jenkins course I have a JFrog integration.
And here I have a Jenkins file,
I'm going to use this one.
And the path is gonna be JFrog integration Jenkins file.
And this Jenkins file
is going to refine a server,
our Artifactory server, NewTechAcademyJfrog.io,
which I refined in the system settings in Jenkins.
It's going create a new Gradle build.
We're also going to publish the build information.
I'm going to build this GSGradle.git,
so let me open one that as well.
First I'm going to do some configuration.
I'm going to say the tool that I'm gonna use is Gradle,
so that's the tool name from the Jenkins configuration.
You can actually skip this if you want
to use the Gradle wrapper.
So I'm just using this tool from Jenkins,
but you can still use the wrapper if you want to use.
The wrapper is also the one that's committed
to the repository.
And then you should not need this Gradle tool installed.
It really depends what your preference is.
Configure my deploy repo,
so the Gradle dev local will be the repo
where I'm going to publish my artifacts.
And the resolver is going to be the Gradle dev,
where I will be getting my depenencies from.
This is some build information.
I'm going to say buildinfo.env.capture
and I'm going to include everything.
This whole part come from the example
that JFrog gives you.
This one is the important one,
it's going to say Gradle.run under directory Artifactory.
With the build file, build.gradle.
Do a clean and then Artifactory Publish
and also provide the build info.
This Artifactory Publish, you need to do
the file in your build Gradle,
that's why I copied the complete directory.
This complete directory, I copied it
to Artifactory and I also provided
some extra information here.
So this extra information is also provided by JFrog,
by their documentation.
I added the Maven publish plugin.
Then I define what I want to publish,
I want to publish a Maven publication.
This is my group ID, my project name, and version 1.0.
Then we have the build scripts.
It's going to use jcenter repositories
and then here is what we want to publish.
So we want to publish to Gradle dev local,
wanna use Maven, we're going to publish this jar.
So let's try to execute this.
Build now.
So it says deploying build info to here
and deploying artifact to here.
And we also can see that now we have
this JFrog icon next to it.
So if you click on it we will see the build info.
Number one.
We can also go back to the console.
Let's have a look in our repository,
so the artifacts, so in Gradle dev local,
now we have academynewtech, gs Gradle 1.0.
And here then we have the jar.
If you're not really familiar with Gradle
then it sounds all a little bit complicated.
I'm also not developing a lot of Java applications
so I'm not that familiar with Gradle.
If you are familiar with Gradle,
it should make a little bit more sense,
but it's not an easy package to work with.
And because it's not an easy package to work with,
I also have an alternative.
And that's what I was talking about
if you're using Docker then there is an alternative.
So if you go back to GS Gradle,
there's a Jenkins file with JFrog.
I'm going to create a new project using this Jenkins file.
So Gradle publisher test with Docker.
And this builds on the previous project
that we were using.
(mouse clicking)
And it's gonna be this one.
And this one.
Yup, save, build.
And this one is defining a server, same server,
but it's still using Docker to build
my Gradle-based Java application.
And then the last step is a very simple step,
you're just going to say OK.
I'm going to upload a file to JFrog
and the pattern is that it's going
to upload everything starting
with GS Gradle and ends with jar.
And I'm going to upload it to right here.
To the target.
So you don't really have to embed
everything in Gradle itself.
You could also use this server .upload
to just upload some artifacts.
So if you're not using Gradle at all, you can also use this.
It just says okay I have some artifacts.
And my artifacts are in some directory,
this is the jar and I'm uploading it
at the correct place.
So this is just an alternative.
Here you can see now it has been completed.
And the artifact was uploaded.
So if you go back here, refresh.
You also have the GS Gradle Docker,
the GS Gradle Docker.jar.
So this one is also uploaded, just in another way.
So these are two different ways of using JFrog Artifactory
to upload build info and to upload artifacts.
JFrog is a very interesting tool to use.
It's a little bit out of the scope of the course,
you could make a whole course about JFrog.
About all the integrations that JFrog has,
like the Docker, and Maven, and all the other ones.
I just show you how to do this with Gradle,
with jars and also in the more generic way
with just publishing an artifact.